.. _campaigns:

=========
Campaigns
=========

A Push Notification Campaign is the action of sending push messages to
part or all the users that have your app installed and have allowed
receiving notifications from you.

There are 3 ways of generating campaigns:

1. With the `Manual Campaigns <https://10darts.com/app/notifications>`_ tool.
2. With the `Content Feed <https://10darts.com/app/notifications/automatic>`_ by generating automatic campaigns with a content RSS.
3. With the `API <https://10darts.com/app/notifications/transactional>`_.

In Manual Campaigns you can use the Campaign Manager to define user
target, distribution method and schedule.

User Target
-----------

Target segmentation criteria:

.. glossary::

    Platform
        Different communications channels: iOS app, Android app, (web notification, FB messenger).

    Language
        10darts takes into account the user’s device language.

    App version
        Users with different app versions can also be targeted, related with iOS and Android apps.

    Users
        List of individual users you specifically want to target, using their ``client_data`` value.

    Segment
        You can choose among those you have `already defined <https://10darts.com/app/segments>`_.

    Tags
        Keys or attributes you use for the different user categories you have in your own CRM and you previously has updated on 10darts. You can see how you can update your users' categories using the API :ref:`here <api-keys-users>` and the SDK :ref:`here <android-sdk-user-data>` or :ref:`importing a CVS File <users-import>`.

    Random Segmentation
        When you *Enable Sample Size of Recipients* 10darts selects the random number of users you specify within your user target to test the notification with them.

    Geographical Segmentation
        When you enable this option your campaign will be sent to users located in the geographical area you define, either by name, i.e. country, state, city, neighborhood, or by drawing a circle or an area in the map.

Distribution Method: Ripple Effect®
-----------------------------------

Unless you choose one of 10darts Ripple Effect Distribution Algorithms,
your campaign will be blasted to all users targeted following your
specifications.

If you chose any of 10Darts Distribution Algorithms, Progressive Ripple
Effect or Geo Ripple, your campaign will reach the maximum interested
audience from the user target you determined.

In summary, autonomous algorithms segment your user target in different
groups and only send notifications to the next group provided that in the
previous one meets the minimum threshold requirements.

10darts defines those threshold dynamically depending on the interaction
level of your users and amount of campaigns you send in each moment
and in general, your content type / industry.

.. _campaigns-geo-ripple:

Geo Ripple
^^^^^^^^^^

In a Campaign you can activate the **Geo Ripple Effect®** as a method to
autonomously increase the effective reach in a certain geographical area.

This distribution methodology is particularly appropriate for notifications
with geo-located content over which you cannot pre-determine the
maximum area of audience relevance, i.e.: local businesses information or
jobs offers, news reports. This algorithm will expand the push notifications
in larger areas until the user engagement in those areas declines.

.. note::

    The maximum audience that can be reached under this distribution
    method will be the user target you’ve defined for the campaign.

.. _campaigns-progressive-ripple:

Progressive Ripple
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Progressive Ripple effect works similar to the Geo-Ripple Effect but
instead of applying the relevance algorithms in geographical areas, it is
applied to different user groups dynamically generated by 10darts within
the user target you define in each campaign.

.. note::

    The maximum audience to be reached under this distribution will be
    the user target you’ve defined for the campaign.

Channel Selection
-----------------

10darts analyzes your user engagement patterns with your platform.
Among them are the :ref:`Touchpoint <channels>` that each user has.

When you select this option, 10darts will autonomously send your push
notification to each user through their preferred communication channel at
the moment you launch your campaign.

As 10datrs incorporates communication channels (web notifications,
Facebook messenger notifications, etc.) this feature will become more
useful to ensure a maximum user engagement.

Schedule
--------

You set up a Campaign to be delivered on a future day and time.
