.. _distribution:

====================
Distribution Methods
====================

Ripple Effect®
--------------

Unless you choose one of 10darts Ripple Effect Distribution Algorithms,
your campaign will be blasted to all users targeted following your
specifications.

If you chose any of 10darts Distribution Algorithms, Progressive Ripple
Effect or Geo Ripple, your campaign will reach the maximum interested
audience from the user target you determined.

In summary, autonomous algorithms segment your user target in different
groups and only send notifications to the next group provided that the
previous one meets the minimum thresholds requirements.
10darts defines those threshold dynamically depending on the interaction
level of your users and the amount of campaigns you send in the moment
and in general, your content type / industry.

.. _campaigns-geo-ripple:

Geo Ripple
^^^^^^^^^^

In a Campaign you can activate the **Geo Ripple Effect®** as a method to
autonomously increase the effective reach in a certain geographical area.

This distribution methodology is particularly appropriate for notifications
with geo-located content over which you cannot pre-determine the
maximum area of audience relevance, i.e. local businesses' information
job offers, or news reports. This algorithm will expand the push notifications
in larger areas until the user engagement in those areas decline.

.. note::

    The maximum audience that can be reached under this distribution
    method will be the user target you’ve defined for the campaign.

.. _campaigns-progressive-ripple:

Progressive Ripple
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Progressive Ripple effect works similarly to the Geo-Ripple Effect but
instead of applying the relevance algorithms in geographical areas, it is
applied to different user groups dynamically generated by 10darts within
the user target you define in each campaign.

.. note::

    The maximum audience to be reached under this distribution will be
    the user target you’ve defined for the campaign.

Touchpoint Selection
--------------------

10darts analyzes your user engagement patterns with your platform.
Among them are the :ref:`Touchpoint <channels>` that each user has.

When you select this option, 10darts will autonomously send your push
notification to each user through their preferred communication channel at
the moment you launch your campaign.

As 10darts incorporates communication channels (web notifications,
Facebook messenger notifications, etc.) this feature will become more
useful to ensure maximum user engagement.
